# Title
# MKR Holder DAI-gest: Week 17, 2020
## Governance Recap April 23, 2020

MKR Holder DAI-gest is a weekly Maker governance recap that is written by the community for the community.  The best source of Maker Community information is through active participation and engagement.   This supplemental publication strives to present all relevant facts and remain free of editorial opinion (Big 3 takeaway excepted).  The statements made herein are not the opinions or statements of the Maker Foundation.  

[Subscribe to MKR Holder's DAI-gest on Substack](https://mkrdai.substack.com/)  - Free

Corrections / Comments / Suggestions / Other:  @adrianhacker-pdx in the Official Maker Forums or adrian@digitalgemini.co

# Big 3 Take-Aways for the Week:

* Understanding the MIPS framework that is being proposed right now is essential.  It is a lot of information to sort through, so take it in small pieces if that will help you to focus and retain the information.  Presented as part of this weeks issue is an index of the current MIPS being proposed.  It is the entire framework of an introductory governance framework and collateral onboarding procedures.  You will find the MIP number, title, and sentence summary with a link to the forum discussion.

# Dispositioned Governance Agenda 
See an item missing?  @adrianh

## New 
* LongForWisdom is proposed second governance facilitator
* Governance and Risk call frequency will increase due to greater work load - G and R Call




## Moving
* Self-sustaining DAO:  MIPS 1 - 13 - G and R call and Forum activity
* SCD shutdown with spell activation delay (delay proposal is new) - Forum and G and R Call
* Collateral onboarding
* GSM delay - G and R Call and forum activity
* Dark fix - "
* Zero bid auction post mortem data evaluation - G and R Call 
* State of the Peg - G and R Call and Forum
* Ranked choice polling - Poll Results: Yes
* Compensating Zero Bid Vault Owners - Poll Results: Yes
* Governance vote cadence - G and R Call
* Public relations consortium 

## Stalled
* DeFi Emergency shutdown consortium
* Flip / Flop auction usability
* Maker token authority 

## Completed
* MKR Debt Auctions - Completed successfully
* USDC On boarding
* Deep dive into collateral on boarding - Presentation to community completed, see forum for movement
* Governance cycle: MIPS 3 Presented in G and R Call - Presentation completed, see forum for movement


# Governance Hot Topics

* Public relations consortium 

## MIPS Index

### [MIP0: The Maker Improvement Proposal Framework](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/mip0-the-maker-improvement-proposal-framework/1902)   

Summary:  MIP0 is the genesis proposal describing the MIPs Framework. This includes the core components and statuses as well as the various MIP types and the overall MIP lifecycle. Furthermore, it provides the necessary tools, such as MIP templates, replacement processes, and dependencies. Lastly, the proposal details the key roles of the framework, the MIP Editor and the Governance Facilitator along with the process for adding and removing them.

### [MIP1: Maker Governance Paradigms](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/mip1-maker-governance-paradigms/1903)

Sentence Summary: MIP1 defines and describes Governance Paradigms and problem spaces.

### [MIP2: Launch Period](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/mip2-launch-period/1904)

Summary:  This proposal details the process of how Maker Governance can bootstrap the setup and implementation of the first Governance Paradigm. More specifically, it defines two phases:
* Phase 1: when a core governance framework is put in place and a functional collateral onboarding process is ratified.
* Phase 2: when the Problem Space is in the process of being addressed with MIPs and MIP Sets.
Lastly, the proposal states that MIP2 itself will become obsolete when the Problem Space has officially been addressed.

### [MIP3: Governance Cycle](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/mip3-governance-cycle/1905)

Summary: This proposal formally introduces a Governance Cycle. The Governance Cycle provides a predictable framework for Maker Governance decisions. Furthermore, it provides participants (MKR holders) with a monthly overview of the decisions that are to be made, allowing participation despite time constraints.

### [MIP4: MIP Amendment and Removal Process](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/mip4-mip-amendment-and-removal-process/1906)

Sentence Summary: MIP4 defines processes for the amendment and removal of accepted MIPs.

### [MIP5: Emergency Voting System](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/mip5-emergency-voting-system/1907)

Sentence Summary:  MIP5 defines emergency changes to the protocol and Governance Facilitator role and how they should be handled in practice.

### [MIP6: Collateral Onboarding Form/Forum Template](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/mip6-collateral-onboarding-form-forum-template/1908)

Sentence Summary:  MIP6 provides an overview of defines a standardised application form used to kick off the process of onboarding a new collateral asset to the Maker Protocol.

### [MIP7: Onboarding and Offboarding Domain Teams for Collateral Onboarding](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/mip7-onboarding-and-offboarding-domain-teams-for-collateral-onboarding/1909)

Sentence Summary: MIP7 defines processes for onboarding and offboarding domain teams.

### [MIP8: Domain Greenlight](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/mip8-domain-greenlight/1910)

Sentence Summary:  MIP8 defines the process by which domain teams signal that a potential collateral type is worth the time spent investigating its inclusion in the Maker Protocol.

### [MIP9: Community Greenlight](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/mip9-community-greenlight/1911)

Sentence Summary:  MIP9 defines the process by which MKR Token Holders can signal their judgement on the value of a potential collateral type before domain teams spent time fully investigating its inclusion into the Maker Protocol.

### [MIP10: Oracle Management](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/mip10-oracle-management/1912)

Summary:  This proposal defines the process for onboarding, offboarding and managing oracles.

### [MIP11: Collateral Onboarding General Risk Model Management](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/mip11-collateral-onboarding-general-risk-model-management/1913)

Summary:  This proposal defines the process and requirements for risk teams to onboard general risk models for use in collateral onboarding in MIP12.

### [MIP12: Collateral and Risk Parameter Management](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/mip12-collateral-and-risk-parameter-management/1914)

Summary:  This proposal defines the documentation requirements for the onboarding of a new collateral type to the Maker Protocol, more specifically, the risk teams’ objectives and requirements to deliver it in a unified package risk construct.


